1. What do you understand By Database 
ans->A database is a structured collection of data that is organized and stored electronically. It allows for easy retrieval, insertion, deletion, and modification of data, typically through query languages like SQL. 

2. What is Normalization?
ans->Normalization, in the context of databases, is the process of organizing data in a database efficiently. It involves breaking down a database into smaller, more manageable tables
 
3. What is Difference between DBMS and RDBMS?
ans->A DBMS (Database Management System) is a software that manages databases, while an RDBMS (Relational Database Management System) is a type of DBMS that stores data in a structured format, using tables with rows and columns, and enforces relationships between tables through constraints

4. What is MF Cod Rule of RDBMS Systems?
ans->1. Information is represented logically in tables. 
     2. Data must be logically accessible by table, primary key, and column.
     3. Null values must be uniformly treated as missing information not as empty strings, blanks, or zeros.
     4. Metadata (data about the database) must be stored in the database just as regular data is.
     5. A single language must be able to define data views. integrity constraints. authorization, transactions, and data manipulation.
     6. Views must show the updates of their base tables and vice versa.

 
5. What do you understand By Data Redundancy? 
ans->Data redundancy refers to the unnecessary repetition of data in a database. This duplication can lead to several issues, including increased storage requirements, higher chances of inconsistencies or errors, and difficulties in data maintenance and update.

6. What is DDL Interpreter? 
ans->A DDL (Data Definition Language) interpreter is a component of a database management system (DBMS) that processes DDL commands. DDL commands are used to define, modify, and manage the structure of a database, including tables, indexes, constraints, and other schema objects.

7. What is DML Compiler in SQL? 
ans->In SQL, the Data Manipulation Language (DML) compiler is responsible for processing and executing DML statements. DML statements are used to retrieve, insert, update, and delete data within a database.

8. What is SQL Key Constraints writing an Example of SQL Key Constraints 
ans->Constraints are the rules that we can apply on the type of data in a table. That is, we can specify the limit on the type of data that can be stored in a particular column in a table using constraints.

    examples:-PRIMARY KEY: A primary key is a field which can uniquely identify each row in a table.
    FOREIGN KEY: A Foreign key is a field which can uniquely identify each row in a another table. 


9. What is save Point? How to create a save Point write a Query? 
ans-> A SAVEPOINT is a point in a transaction in which you can roll the transaction back to a certain point without rolling back the entire transaction
query:-savepoint A;
ex :rollback to A;

10. What is trigger and how to create a Trigger in SQL? 
ans-> An SQL trigger is a database object that automatically executes a set of SQL statements when a specific event occurs on a table.

example:-

SQL

CREATE TRIGGER [schema_name.]trigger_name
ON table_name
AFTER {[INSERT], [UPDATE], [DELETE]}
AS
BEGIN
    -- SQL statements to be executed
END


